# alias
alias is a developer console with multiple implementations

## The guidelines
### The lexer
The lexer is a function that when passed a string it will output an array-like structure of tokens.

When passed a string it should split it with spaces being the separator,
however if there are double quotes they sould not be split, insted bbeing considered one token.
The output will be stored in an array-like structure.
The quotes should not be visable in the output.

Example:
```
input: 'a b c "a b c"'
output ['a', 'b', 'c', 'abc']
```
### The interpreter
The interpreter is a function that takes in an array-like structure of strings (generated by the lexer) and performs an operation based on those tokens.

The first item is used to tell the interpreter what operation to perform, all of the other items are used as arguments.
For example if we make an echo operation that outputs the second argument to the standard output if we pass the interpreter these tokens:
```
['echo', 'Hello, World!']
```
in the standard output we will see:
```
Hello, World!
```

The interpreter's operations should be extensible.
### heap
The heap is simple, just store valuses and get values by string. An example would be a dictonary
### aliases
An alias is a group of commands that are stored under one name. 
They can be executed by the exec alias command.
The way they execute is one command at a time, execute one, then go to the next in the alias.
They are stored in a second heap called aliascmds, each alias is an array-like structure with each command in it.
### included commands
```
"echo"
"setvar"
"calcvar"
"quit"
"alias"
"execalias"
```
#### echo
prints the second argument to the screen
#### setvar
assigns a variable (2nd argument) in the heap a value (3rd argument)
<hr>

#### calcvar
syntax:
```
setvar [var1] [operation] [var2] [var3]
```
performs operation on var1 and var2 then puts a value into var3

##### add
addition

##### sub
subtraction

##### mul
multiplication

##### div
division

##### is
(returns boolean 1 or 0) is equal

##### isnot
(returns boolean 1 or 0) is not equal

<hr>

#### quit
quit the program
#### alias
assigns a alias a value
#### execalias
executes an alias


## usage
If we make a variable called "usrin" and we set it to contain a command, for example `echo "Hello, World!"`.
We would pass the "usrin" variable to the lexer function, after the lexer has completed we would pass the tokens from the lexer function into the interpreter function.
